.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Linguistic Data Consortium.; All rights reserved
.\" @(#)Lfst_trans.1	0.1 3/31/95 ERL
.ds ]W (c) 1995 LDC, Upenn.
.TH  Lfst_trans 1\-FST 3/31/95
.SH NAME
Lfst_trans \- General purpose transducer on LFST.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Lfst_trans -option filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
Lfst_trans is a C program designed to do transduction on the LFST
transducer file. It uses a hashing mechanism in matching the input
tape string. If the hashing length is zero, it is equivalent to the
normal string matching. If the hashing length equals the maximum input
string length, it is equivalent to a state transition table
implementation. Currently, the hashing length is set to 4 for the
START state and 1 for all other states. By setting different hashing
lengths, one can dynamically adjust the program to have a good trade
off between memory and speed. If the transducer data file includes
compound word definitions, the program can work on sentence input and
generate a multi-path FST output.

There are three wild characters used in a partial match:
        ?        Match any one character.
        *        Match any string.
        !        Match any string on one arc.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -c 
Compound processing and sentence processing.
.TP
.BI -C 
Decode the POS at the output.
.TP
.BI -d " arclist_filename"
Specify arclist file, Default: arccats1.gl.
.TP
.BI -D
Enter debugging mode.
.TP
.BI -f
Output the result in LFST format.
.TP
.BI -h
Print out help information.
.TP
.BI -i " number"
Specify the input string position, Default: 0, [0,5].
.TP
.BI -j " number"
Specify the output string position, Default: all others.
.TP
.BI -l " number"
Specify hash length for START state, Default is 4.
.TP
.BI -m
Print out the matched input string.
.TP
.BI -p " number"
If the number is 1, a partial match is performed; if the number is 2,
the program generates analyses for all possible words.
.TP
.BI -t
Trace the matched arcs.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following are examples of how to run Lfst_trans.

.nf
(1) To generate a check-all file for the transducer:
example% Lfst_trans -d Spanish.lfst1 -p 2 -i 1 -m -t -C 

(2) To do Spanish morphological analysis with partial match.
example% Lfst_trans -d Spanish.lfst1 -i 1 -m -t -p 1 -C 

(3) To do compound and sentence analysis for Spanish.
example% Lfst_trans -d Spanish.lfst1 -i 1 -m -t -c -C 

.ni
.PP


.SH BUGS
Unknown.

.SH AUTHOR
Manual page by Zhibiao Wu, program by Zhibiao Wu


